this is the most important invention
since the printing press it comes in
many shapes and sizes and has even more
names but don't worry about that
according to the sellers of these
amazing little gadgets they do
everything from saving you money to
cleaning your dirty unstable electricity
to helping you finally get a good
night's sleep but you better hurry we're
almost sold out there's no time for
research when other people are buying
them all just look at this graph
and if you act right now you'll get 50
65 no wait 70% off look at all these
logos of news organizations that you
might trust don't they look nice here or
maybe over here wow these sites really
are a master class in scummy marketing
but the craziest thing about these
little miracle gizmos they aren't
actually a scam I mean they absolutely
are a scam but at the same time you know
what this is going to take some
explaining up roll the thing for our
sponsor big thanks to seic for
sponsoring this video they are Prime and
focus series power supplies come with a
12year warranty and we're going to talk
about how they could actually save you
some money on your power bill a little
bit later on let's kick off with the
beef you're feeling one with the all
metal housing if this thing's just a
rock and some hot glue this is going to
be a real short
video man this thing is cool we can see
every individual wire in here on the
next slide we get a really good look at
a couple of resistors a diode uh We've
also got what looks like a little LED
here and this boxy structure if we alter
our view a little bit enhance shows us
that this is in fact a capacitor we can
see the two conductive plates inside of
it now if half of the manufacturer
claims about these are true that right
there is the hardest working capacitor
on the planet let's change gears and
move over to our plastic ones
well seems like they've got a couple
more components on their boards
including some capacitors on the boards
themselves but the design is similar
overall so why don't we change gears and
talk about what these things are
supposed to do if you're familiar with
electrical circuits you might already
know about inductive resistive and
capacitive loads for everyone else
here's the tldr if something is mostly
just making heat like a hot plate or an
old school incandescent light bulb it's
a res resistive load and the voltage and
current remain in Phase or lined up if
something is moving ceiling fans and
washing machines are good examples here
it's probably an inductive load and the
current legs behind the voltage by
90° capacitive loads meanwhile tend to
be more hidden especially in the home
this is where the current leads 90°
ahead of voltage so these loads are
typically used to balance out inductive
loads and they're mostly found in well
stuff that has capacitors in it like
this Prime PX power supply from our
sponsor C Sonic who has more models
rated at Titanium or above by
cybernetics than any other manufacturer
that means more than 90% efficiency with
a power factor of 98 or better that
power factor thing that's going to mean
something to you in a minute coming back
to different kinds of loads if you've
got a big industrial building that is
stuffed full of AC Motors Transformers
and the like you can end up with so much
inductive load that it actually starts
to impact the efficiency of the power
grid itself and I'm not talking
efficiency like some waste heat from
your noodle extruding machine I'm
talking the power company needs to send
you more power than you're actually
using harming their efficiency that's
where something called the power factor
comes into play it's a measure of how
much power is doing work called active
power versus how much power it looks
like you're using called apparent power
and we can find it with this very
Pythagoras looking formula here the
ideal power factor is one meaning that
all the power you're drawing from the
grid is doing actual work anything lower
and you are impacting the efficiency of
the grid which your power company is
100% going to charge you for so then how
do you reduce the inductive load so your
power company doesn't start piling on
sech charges capacitors the power system
in any big industrial facility likely
has one or more more capacitor Banks
which act to smooth out their heavy
inductive loads hence the capacitors
that showed up on our CT scans but
here's the thing while the theory is
actually sound residential customers you
know the people they're marketing these
devices too don't get charged based on
power factor a big part of the reason
for that is pretty much all of the heavy
power devices in a house are either a
resistive load or they already have
capacitors build into them to compensate
for their inductive loads we looked from
Alberta to Zimbabwe and across the board
residential and small business customers
are build only for the active power used
now I'm sure there's some outliers that
you guys are already furiously typing
comments about but generally speaking
it's only when you ramp up to large
commercial and Industrial facilities
that power factor really enters the
equation and the folks selling these
magical gizmos know all of this they
just don't care power factor is that
convenient Little Nugget of truth that
they can wrap in the layers and layers
of BS marketing that your conspiracy
loving uncle needs to convince them to
buy these things for the entire family
for Christmas this year and some of them
take their scam even further let's crack
this one open using our handy dandy
Precision screwdriver kit from LTD
store.com built-in bit storage fidget
spinner worthy uncap and built-in
magnetic Parts tray with the one screw
removed uh yeah there's not a whole lot
going on in here we've got a basic LED
power circuit that's how you know it's
on then we just go ahead and remove this
second screw and this IC right here is a
bridge rectifier that converts AC to DC
so far so good but this is the part
where we get into some funny business do
you see our um capacitor here well one
of the two leads going to it doesn't
seem to actually connect to the rest of
the circuit you can see it in the X-ray
or actually just by holding it up to the
light there's no Trace to that pad so my
question now then is if this is just
here for looks is this even a real
capacitor let's find
out before I connect this it's worth
noting that this is in nanofarads right
now that's effectively zero Moment of
Truth is it a real
capacitor survey says no I got to say
I'm actually kind of surprised that it
is more cost effective to build a fake
Capac fer than it was to drop the 15 or
maybe 30 cents on a real one it's got
some weight to it at least I cut one
open see what's oh did you cut one open
let's have a look at our fake capacitor
oh is that like a little bit of cement
that they just smeared on it it kind of
looks like that whatever it is the
bottom line is if you want to save some
money on your power bill maybe you
should consider upgrading your rig to a
new 80 plus Platinum rated Prime PX
power supply from our sponsor seic the
prime PX series is fully modular and has
you covered all the way from 650 watts
to
1,600 Watts backed by an
industry-leading 12year warranty it uses
a 135 mm fan to keep things cool and
quiet and that fan doesn't even spin up
until it reaches somewhere in the
neighborhood of around 30% load with
power supplies this efficient more of
your money is going right into those
sweet sweet FPS instead of being wasted
generating excess heat and if you're not
sure how much power you need you can
just click on the calculate button on
their website and they will help you
find the perfect fit so find your next
power supply at the link down below and
find your next video to watch at this
video right here where you can watch me
get shocked repeatedly as we figure out
if those Wireless anti-static wristbands
are a scam with the help of our friend
electroboom yo Jordan how much did we
spend on these things um about 20 bucks
for four well I mean at that price at
least it's uh decent value as a
nightlight
$5 nightlight